These diagrams of nodes, and topics,
and their connections are frequently referred to as compute graph.
Visualizing the compute graph is useful for understanding
what nodes exist and how they communicate with one another.
ROS provides a tool called RQT graph for showing the compute graph of a system.
A modern complex robot will likely have dozens of
nodes even more topics and quite a few services.
This is an example of a mobile base demonstration platform.
As far as robotics platforms go,
this one is relatively simple.
Primarily, consisting of a lighter unit,
a depth camera and four independently driven omnidirectional wheels.
Here's the robots compute graph.
An RQT graph allows you to zoom in and pan
around the graph as well as choose exactly what information is displayed.
Now that you've introduced to some of
the fundamental components of ROS communication architecture,
it's time to get some hands on experience with
the helpful little simulator called TurtleSim.